So the goal is to create a new subscription now
through the service worker but in our app.js
file and a new subscription is generally created very simply.
We use our service worker registration.
Now since this is a variable, an argument only available in this then function here, I'll quickly create
a new variable which I'll name reg and I will store the service worker registration in it, this variable can
now be accessed everywhere,
so I'll access it here
and now we can access the push manager again to also create a new subscription.
We do this by simply calling subscribe. Now
we will not stop here
but basically what this will do is it will create a new subscription for the given browser on this
device.
This is what it does, creates a new subscription.
If we have an existing subscription, it will render the old one useless.
So we have a new subscription now,
however this is not how we do it.
As I mentioned earlier, a subscription contains the endpoint of that browser vendor server to which
we push our push messages,
anyone with this endpoint can send messages to that server and this server will forward them to our
web app.
Now if anyone finds out what our endpoint URL is, he can start sending messages to our users
in our app and these messages will look like they are coming from us,
therefore we need to protect this and we protect this in two ways.
We do it by passing configuration to subscribe with a Javascript object.
First of all there is a user visible only property which we set to true,
this basically says that push notifications sent through our service are only visible to this user.
Now that's not really a security mechanism though, the security mechanism is that we will identify our
own application server,
so this is now our own back-end server as the only valid source sending you push messages, so that anyone
else sending push messages to the API endpoint by the browser vendor server will simply not get through,
his push messages won't be delivered.
Now to identify our own application server, passing just the IP
or something like that certainly isn't enough because that's easy to trick and not really secure.
Instead what we want to do is we'll use an approach, an approach which is called vapid. Now vapid can be
thought of as an approach where we have two keys, a public and a private one. The public one as the name
implies is the one which can be exposed to the public,
that's the one we'll use in Javascript because as you know, everyone can read our Javascript,
we can't hide information in there,
therefore that is where we use the public one. The private key is connected to the public one but can't
be derived from the public one and is stored on our application server only,
so it runs on the server and therefore can't be accessed without people hacking our server,
in which case they could start sending push notifications to our users anyways.
So that's the private key,
only the two together work.
So if you only get the public one, that's not enough to start sending information.
This is the approach we'll use and for that, we need these vapid
keys. Now behind the scenes and I'll link this article that at the end of this module, the vapid keys use
JSON Web Tokens to carry identifying information and simply are converted
to base 64 strings you could say, to keys we can use easily.
Now you could theoretically create them from scratch manually and that's no fun at all, which is why
we use package, a Javascript library to generate them. We'll also need a library to send push messages
later on because whilst you can build everything from ground, there is absolutely no sense in doing so
and there is a great push library we will use, it's called web push.
So this is what I'll do next,
I'll install the web push and use it to generate my vapid
keys to then use these keys to secure the push messages.
Let's do this in the next lecture.